Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
Just before I came into the studio, I heard some very good news for the people in the Tennessee
Valley area, and I want to tell you about it now.
The good news is that the Senate Public Works Committee has finally reported out a self-financing
bill for the Tennessee Valley Authority.
We all know that it's necessary for the TVA to build more steam plants and hydroelectric
facilities to be able to furnish the increasing demand for power for electricity and the Tennessee
Valley.
While we haven't been able to get any appropriations for it for a long time, so this
bill is to enable the TVA to issue a revenue bond with the users of power to pay back through
the TVA over a course of years.
The bill has been tied up for some time, but it's been finally reported.
Of course, some compromises had to be made, and there was a giving and taking on both sides,
but I think the bill that has finally been brought out is a good compromise.
It's one that the TVA can live with, and I get along under, and I think it's about the
best it could be done.
The compromise is that the bill is for a five-year period, enabling the TVA to issue $750
million worth of bonds over a period of five years.
After that, we review the program and then see what needs to be done.
Another compromise is that the 40-year amortization program whereby the TVA has to repay back its
original investment within 40 years has been taken out of the bill, and in lieu of that,
the TVA will pay interest at the average rate which the government pays on the amount
that has been appropriated to it.
The committee got into a great deal of difficulty over the so-called limit on the area to be served
at the TVA.
And the compromise is that if the TVA area is extended in any substantial way, it can
only be done by an act of funds.
But if it's a small, minute extension to serve some REA-electrical office adjacent to
the TVA area, that may be done provided the TVA notifies the Congress in which 60 days
to be served whether there's any objection.
Under the compromise bill, the Secretary of the Treasury can delay the issuance of bonds
for 45 days in order to fit in with the government's overall fiscal focus.
I want to congratulate Senator Robert Kerr of Oklahoma, the chief sponsor of this bill and
the chairman of the Subcommittee, Alan Colleg, Senator Gore, who is a member of the committee
of Senator Hill of Alabama, Senator Cooper of Kentucky, and many others who have worked
on the bill very, very hard.
The bill came out with two Republican votes.
Let's show the sure that it wouldn't be classified as a partisan matter when it reaches the
floor so that I hope that we can pass the bill with a big majority that will also give
it some impetus to get through the House of Representatives.
We're working on a deadline in connection with this bill.
We cannot be considered this week under the rules of the Senate, and we are going to
try very hard to get it up early next week before July 8th, the date on which the so-called
civil rights long debate of Philobuster will take place.
We have spoken to the majority leader and to others in this effort, and I am very, very
hopeful that this can be done.
Well, that's the first bit of good news we've had insofar as TVA legislation for some time
to be concerned.
I didn't want to talk with you today about another important matter that happened in the
Senate this week.
We all remember the Hungarian revolt last fall, how the people rose up against the communist
mess.
We all wanted to do something about it that didn't know what to do.
The United Nations had a committee that composed the five members of five nations which
has randomly condemned what the communist did.
And the United States Senate passed a resolution unanimously asking our delegate in the UN
to urge the General Assembly to be called in order to take this matter up again.
I hope that's going to be done.
That's an idea.
What's going on?
Well, Dick Wallace, my administrative assistant, his head is the Keptish Derby, which is being
held at Savannah Tennessee.
This month I'm going down Saturday to be there at Derby.
And I know I'm going to have a good time.
We are mighty proud of our Tennessee blue cats, no fish are better.
We are challenging Colorado deferring to shop to the senators and let them determine which
will, which tastes better.
And we know that Tennessee cats will win out.
That's all for now.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, as you know the anti-trust and monopoly subcommittee
of which I am chairman has been conducting hearings and so-called administered prices,
administered prices or those which do not react to what we ordinarily consider to be the
competitive forces in our economy.
Their prices set by decision of management.
They may be raised when demand is falling, contrair to the ordinary views of inflation.
Well, we've had a number of distinguished economists who have discussed this problem
before our subcommittee.
And right now we have Mr. Roger Blow, chairman of the board of the United States Steel Corporation,
and a number of his fellow officers before it.
Now all of these distinguished gentlemen have discussed in learned terms such things as
administered prices as opposed to the free market.
But sometimes you get the clearest explanation, the finest understanding of the differences
between the two from unexpected sources.
Ours came from a letter to the editor, but appeared in a little weekly paper down in
weekly county at Dresden, Tennessee.
It is signed simply J.A.
I have no idea who J.A. is, although I'm curious.
I read this letter across the committee table to Mr. Blow this week, and I'd like to read
it to you because I think that in very simple and humorous terms, it explains the fight
of our economy.
This is the letter.
Dear editor, the trouble with inflation is that not enough people understand its calling.
Right at this point Mr. Blow interrupted and said, I agree with that 100% to 100%.
But continuing the letter, I had noticed in a copy of a newspaper which a neighbor of
mine brought a mere mess of fish in, or your information it wasn't a copy of your paper
as this one had a fishy smell.
That the price of steel had recently gone up $6 a ton, which clearly indicated that the
steel industry has let its newspaper subscription expire.
As President Eisenhower only the day before had asked business to hold prices down voluntarily.
And as a result, a lot of other things were automatically going up.
For example, naturally the watch manufacturers on hearing the price of steel had gone up
will figure that they ought to go up on the price of their watches.
As everybody knows the steel spring on the watches made of steel, even if it doesn't weigh
over and out.
Power points, tractors, cars, pickups, naturally will require an increase in prices to offset
the rise in the price of steel.
And so I decided that what was good for industry was good for me.
Consequently, when I took a dozen eggs in the town yesterday to sell, I told the store
I'd have to have five cents more for my eggs.
How come the store owner asks?
Don't you read your newspaper?
It's on account of the increase in the price of steel, I explain.
Now here's the rub.
Instead of nodding his head in agreement and saying there didn't seem to be any way around
if he does laugh.
You could see he didn't have any full understanding of inflation and the upward price spiral.
Don't believe I'd be interested, he said.
But my cost are going up and I've got to have more money for these eggs.
Don't believe I'd be interested, he said, and turned around and waited on another customer.
Now I could have waited him out, but from long experience I knew the eggs couldn't.
So I sold the eggs, sold the eggs at his price and came on home.
It's the people who don't understand inflation that's causing this country so much trouble.
I don't mind paying six dollars a ton more for steel.
If somebody will recognize that I ought to get more from my eggs.
There are more people than you realize who are out of tune with me and with my hymn.
You're a spacefully J.A.
And there you have it, my friends.
A clear distinction between free and competitive market and the administered price market.
And an explanation of why this inflation, which is our number one problem,
is not a simple traditional kind that can easily be cured by any simple traditional remedy,
such as the tight money policy.
As a matter of fact, that policy doesn't do a thing to US steel,
but it makes the egg business a whole lot rougher.
But we'll have more to tell you about our fight against inflation
for the judiciary subcommittee from time to time.
In any event, we've got to do something about it.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
First on this program today, I would like to bring you up today as to the progress
of being made in connection with the TBA self-financing bill, which is now pending in
Congress.
We will all recall that it's been almost five years since the TBA has had any appropriations
for the building of a steam plant or for a hydroelectric facility.
And that being denied appropriations is necessary for us to have a self-financing bill so that
the TBA can issue its own bond, which it will repay from its own revenue, and which will
only be revenue in that general government obligation bond.
Along with Senator Gore and the Senators from the Tennessee Valley area, I'm a co-sponsored
the so-called Kerr Bill, which would allow the Board of Directors and TBA to issue bonds
and to be a responsible group and agency in connection with them and their repayment.
Five bills are pending before the public works committee.
We've been having quite a number of discussions about the matter.
There's some parity that we got some bill out this year because it takes years to build
steam plants, and we're not going to have power enough by the winter of 1959 unless we
build some more.
These conferences seem to be pulled out some hope that we can get a bill passed in the Senate
and perhaps in the House and one that the President will not veto that the TBA can live
by.
But I think it's going to be necessary, and I personally believe that in order to get
a bill passed, we'll have to make some concessions.
The two concessions most frequently spoken of are to put a $750 million limit on the
amount of bonds for a period of five years.
And also to provide that the TBA might make a manner extension of its service to some
close by REA.
It never has made any more than a manner extension of its service anywhere.
But in order to make a major one that it would have to secure a congressional approval.
But I personally would rather these limitations and other limitations it might come up not
be placed on this self-financing bill.
We will have to have some amendments of this kind in order to get it passed.
I think during the five years the TBA can prove itself and go on as a great agency that it
is and live with these amendments.
Anyway, we're doing everything possible to get the bill passed.
I've been receiving a great deal of correspondence from people in Tennessee and there's tremendous
national interest.
In connection with the American soldier William S. Gerard who is charged with a killing
of a Japanese woman, whether he should be fired by American court martial law in the
Japanese court.
And you know what's the strange thing that this goes to show that how individual actions
and issues of this kind determine the attitude and the relationship between nations as much
as the tremendous amount of money that we have spent since the war of visions and visions
of dollars to how to help to 10 and not spend the nation get on her feet.
But some incident like this and it happened very impeccably because our soldiers are well
behaved generally and things like this do not occur.
And this roughed the relationship between nations.
Well Gerard it will be remembered that was accused of killing a Japanese woman and I do
not want to minimize the extent of the seriousness of what he's been charged with and in the extent
whatsoever.
But we have a treaty with Japan whereas when our soldiers are committed to a sense
while on duty and on the reservation there to be fired by court martial.
And they're out on their own and off duty while they'd be fired by the civilian courts
of the country in which they are located.
And that applies reciprocally when some of their soldiers are over here.
The big mistake that's been made is that we have vacillated in the matter.
I personally have information I have he was on duty and on the reservation and he should
have been fired on court martial.
And now a court has come into the case and we all have to wait I think until the Supreme
Court acts.
In any event I hope that by diplomacy the rights of this young man can be preserved.
He's entitled to be fired by court martial and that our relationships will not be
a rapidly damaged between Japan and our country.
That's all for now.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen friends with Tennessee.
One of the most important discussions taking place in Washington these days is the matter
that has not come to the floor of the Senate and the former than its village yet.
This discussion that I have in mind is taking place largely before the Senate's finance
committee and it involves the tight money policy.
This policy is being descended by the second care of the Treasury, Comfort, who is widely
recognized as a man who knows money and money policies.
It is being attacked by Senator Bob Kerr of Oklahoma and others who are just as well recognized
for the same quality.
You have all heard of the laws that fly in demand.
The tight money policy is a device employed by the administration which is designed to
bring down the man down to the level of the class by restricting the ability of business
and individuals to borrow money or to obtain credit.
It is opposed to eliminate inflation.
Well I'm no financial expert but my mother used to tell me that the proof of the pudding
is in the eating.
It seems to me that the proof of the failure of the tight money policy to control inflation
is in the inflation that we are experiencing at the present time.
Since this new policy was adopted over a year and a half ago, living costs have continued
to hit new highs each month or 14 months out of the last 15.
We don't have to look at fancy charts to note that we are having inflation.
Most of us can simply tell by looking into our wallet and into our firsts.
I have my wallet here and I know that I can tell that we are having inflation every
time Nancy returns from a trip to the grocery store.
Why has this policy failed to check inflation?
Very simply because I think we are having a different kind of inflation.
The kind of inflation that tight money policy might cure would be the kind we had during
the war when we had the limited things that people could buy and we had the OTA and the OCS
for that purpose.
And it is the wrong remedy for the other kind of inflation.
You don't have to be an expert to know that something is wrong and prices continue to
go up in industries where production is falling and where goods are and over supply.
As an example, the steel industry last week announced that it was raising the price of
steel $6 a ton and yet we know the figures released by the industry itself that it is
operating nearly 20% below its full capacity.
So we can see that it isn't the law to plan the man that is responsible for increasing
prices of steel.
But what is happening is just the opposite of what you would expect.
What then is responsible?
I think that the answer is simply that some concentrated industries have the power to
raise prices even when demand is falling and do not hesitate to exercise that power.
Steel is just one such concentrated industry.
The overall effectiveness phenomena is an increasing in the cost of living in the face of a falling
demand for their products.
This is a type of inflation which can be only minutely affected by a tight money policy.
It is somewhat like taking an aspirin to cure a penicillin.
If the tight money policy was of any substantial benefit in holding the type of inflation we
have today, you can be sure that I would be all-farring.
But not only is it the wrong remedy, it also has many and jury side effects of its own.
It hurts small business badly, but they are the first to be cut off from the supply of
credit.
Even if they can obtain enough credit, the interest rates will take so high that the cost of loans
become an unbearable burden.
In addition, a tight money prevents much needed construction such as homes, highways, schools
and things of that sort.
It creates high interest rates that are often passed on to the consumers.
It even forces the government to pay much higher rates for the money it times necessary
as a bar and thus increases tax.
So the poor consumer gets stuck with the bill no matter which way he turns.
The Senate Finance Committee and its present hearings is trying to come up with a new
description.
And this week the Subcommittee on Antitrust and Monopoly in which I am chairman is going
to begin a separate inquiry into those industries which maintain administered prices, posted
prices at which they will sell regardless of the fluctuation of the man.
We must know more about the effects of such industries before we can describe the remedy.
There is no doubt that the patient shows signs of illness, the tight money policy described
as sedative, which has yet to prove its value.
But we need is complete and thorough diagnosis to determine the cause of the disease.
Then we will be able to keep the patient recording.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, it is a great pleasure to be back again with
you at this opening of a new session of Congress.
And this promises to be a very interesting session.
It is particularly a time when we Democrats in Congress have a big responsibility, the
cost of the very large majority which we have in both the Senate and the House as a
result of last November's elections.
I pray and hope that as a result of our actions we will succeed in bettering the lot of the
American people while strengthening our nation and the free world against communist aggression.
It is already a historic Congress because it is the first one in which 49 states are
represented.
Alaska, as you know, was granted statehood as a result of action in the last session of
Congress.
And it has elected its two senators and its member of the House and they were sworn in
last Wednesday.
There are a lot of jokes going around Washington because Alaska has succeeded Texas as the
biggest state from the standpoint of territory in the Union.
One of the latest that I heard is that the way to feel him then is far in the last to move
to the state of Texas.
I know that you are interested in some of the things which I believe a new Congress may
or may not do.
First of all, I think that the TVA's self-financing bill, and I have talked with my colleague Senator
Gore about this and he agrees, will have a much better chance of passage in this Congress.
The goodness knows we need it badly and we need it now.
An analysis of the senators and House members who were defeated in November or who retired
shows that by and large a good-sized majority of them were critics of the TVA and the rural
electrification administration.
On the other hand, the new faces among both the House and the Senate members include
many outspoken champions of public power and of TVA.
Therefore, I believe that this year we will have the majorities we need to give the TVA
the self-financing authority it needs and let it plan and let it make its plans and run
its business on a business like basis.
Personally, I shall work for this TVA legislation and for the new dams and installations on the
Cumberland River as well as for West Tennessee flood control.
I shall work again as a heaven to pass on legislation which I think will improve the juvenile
delinquency situation.
Specifically, I shall have a new bill on forestry camps and I hope that this year it will
be adopted.
My idea on this is to use land or military installations which have been abandoned,
my property which the government already owns but which is surplus to establish camps
for the rehabilitation of boys who have become juvenile delinquents.
It will serve a double purpose, aiding conservation of lands and forests as well as conserving
our greatest resource, our children.
I hope that an aid program will be established to help the states in their training of personnel
to serve in the juvenile institutions and in probationary positions.
And we all know that high prices and inflation continue to be our major headache.
As chairman of the Antitrust and Monopoly Subcommittee, we will continue to work on this problem.
The staff during this recess has been making various inquiries.
I intend now to get the committee together to hear the results of their work and to
decide what we shall pursue in the future.
As for taxes, I hope that we won't have any new ones.
There are many inequities in the nation's present tax laws and I think some of you should
be eliminated before we have new taxes.
And certainly the farmers must have a better deal as a result of this session and I believe
that they will get it.
The closing, let me say, that during this recess I have had an opportunity to visit with
many of you personally.
I have enjoyed this very much and have found it very helpful to exchange views and opinions
with you.
I have visited all parts of the state and again I was impressed with the greatest potential
for growth and development at his Tennessee age.
If we will all work together, there is no limit on our future.
As your senator, I certainly try to do my part during this new session of Congress.
And I want to thank this station for carrying this program as a public service, a service.
I hope that those of you who see and hear these programs will write me your suggestions
from time to time.
I will be very glad indeed to have your criticisms, your thoughts and your ideas about legislation
and what I can do in Washington to help.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
The people of Tennessee may well be proud of the victory they have helped win over
infantile paralysis.
Thanks to your contributions, the Salk vaccine was developed.
Your contributions also gave a help to 350,000 polio victims to improve treatment and rehabilitation.
Your National Foundation, formerly known as the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis,
will definitely continue its important work in the polio field.
At the same time, the National Foundation is undertaking a vast new program to fight
arthritis, birth defects and virus diseases.
Through a greatly expanded research program, the National Foundation will seek to cause
and prevention of these major health problems, which affect millions and millions of children
and adults each year.
It will help launch this new program by supporting the March of Dimes this month.
Join with the National Foundation in helping millions of our disabled fellow citizens have
a better life.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the past week in Congress has been a very busy
one, with many matters of importance under consideration.
First, I'd like to tell you about a new committee assignment, which I consider of great importance
to me and to our state of Tennessee.
I have an assigned to be a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and I have requested
its chairman, Senator Hayden of Arizona, to give me a place on the subcommittee on interior
and public works.
Now, we will ask for no special favors in these subcommittees, but I intend to try to
see to it that matters of vital importance to Tennessee, receive thorough attention,
and that we get our fair share of money.
Such matters as the Smoky Mountain National Park and the Forest Service fall within the
school for the subcommittee on the interior.
Under this subcommittee on public works will come a wide variety of important projects,
necessary to the continued and future development of all parts of our state.
Tennessee Valley Authority, the Cumberland River Damns, and flood control in West Tennessee
and drainage projects to mention just a few.
The Appropriations Committee is the committee where the real yes or no to the business of
government is heard.
Other committees may authorize and propose projects and programs, but such matters will
never be realized until the money to pay for them is appropriated.
The Appropriations Committee holds the final key to this final, all-important step, getting
the money to pay the bill.
This is one main reason I feel my new position on this committee will enable me to render
even greater service to every part of Tennessee, and I shall do my very best to do so.
Another matter of wide interest to all parts of Tennessee is the TVA Self-Financing Bill
that we've talked about so much.
I am pleased to report the Senator Robert Kerr of Oklahoma has again agreed to introduce
this bill in the Public Works Committee on to guide it there.
It has been discussed with the new senators on the committee and with others, and I think
in the Senate the outlook is favorable, and I think it's better in the House also.
President Eisenhower's budget presented to Congress last week suggested that when such
a bill was passed that he would ask that the TVA have authority to borrow $200 million
to bill necessary projects at the present time.
We have not been able at this time to determine the period the money is supposed to cover.
This is an important point that needs clarification, and we are working on it.
Senator Goura and I, as your senators from Tennessee and all the others from our TVA
area, have worked hard and steadily toward this goal of securing a self-financing program
for TVA and FAR, all of the matters pertaining to this important power, navigation, flood
control facility.
Now that we have brought the program near realization, we all propose to renew our efforts
all along the line to see that the TVA remains strong and grows according to the needs of
the state, and our colleagues in the House of Representatives are doing the same thing.
Now I'd like to extend my thanks to all those in Upper East Tennessee and in Nashville,
whose warm welcome last night, last week made our visit so wonderful.
The first Baptist Church of the Elizabethan, where I spoke to the brotherhood, ladies'
night, and attended Sunday services was most cordial.
At Nashville last Monday, I saw many old friends and enjoyed attending the inauguration of
Governor Buford Ellington, where he and the outgoing Governor Frank Clement both made
fine speeches.
I hope to be able to return to Tennessee very soon with my new administrative assistant,
Charlie Calwell, and we plan to have make many trips back and to talk with you about your
needs and your problems.
In closing, I'd like to mention that the Senate Animal Noply Subcommittee of which I'm
chairman, last week resumed its hearings concerning the growing high cost of living,
and the runaway inflation that some people are experiencing in this country.
We plan to pursue this problem vigorously in an effort to arrive at the causes for these
spiraling costs of living, and to make recommendations that may help to pull the price line, and to
prevent inflation that is damaging all of our people.
That's all I have time for for this occasion, so goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the past week in Congress has again been a very
busy one.
The Judiciary Committee of which I'm a member, met, discussed its budget, and made assignments
to subcommittees.
I am again privileged to head the antitrust and monopoly subcommittee.
For several days now, this committee has heard expert testimony from a number of leading
economists such as Dr. Norris and Lewis and others, on the effect of administered prices
and the inflation of prices to the consumer.
This is a very important question, and we will have many more hearings in our effort to
determine the causes of this rapidly increasing cost of living and what can be done about
it.
This will include a look at food and bread and some parts of drugs and other commodities
that affect every citizen's pocketbook every day.
In this connection, I have introduced a bill designed to take automobile manufacturers
out of the banking and insurance business.
Our committee has found that Ford Motor Company contemplates setting up a banking and insurance
structure as General Motors has been employing for many years, and there are rumors that
Chrysler Motor is also thinking along these same lines.
I don't feel it is fair that one manufacturer should have the benefits to rise from such
operations, while others do not, and if one is going to have it, the other ought to be
others ought to be entitled to have it too.
But even more important, our committee has determined that any automobile manufacturer
to engage in banking and insurance activities restrains trade and automobiles and promotes
mop monopolization of the production, distribution, sale, financing, and insurance of automobiles.
I believe that financing and insurance should be the business largely of local establishments,
whose primary concern is such business.
In sponsoring this legislation, I certainly do not want to penalize any manufacturer who
spins off his insurance or banking business, and I would support laws to give the manufacturers
relief in this respect.
I believe that this legislation will be helpful to all, including the dealers and put them
on an even basis.
Putting financing and insurance back in the hands of agencies at home will keep them more
of the money at home, where it belongs, and materially aid small business.
Hearings will be held on this bill so that all interested parties may present their views.
Now to other assignments on the Judiciary Committee, I have again been named ahead the Constitutional
Amendment Subcommittee, which will consider such important questions as equal rights for
men or women and the possible inability of the President to perform the functions of his
office.
I have again prepared a resolution in this connection, outlining the methods for the Vice
President to assume the President's duties in such an event, and for determining such
inability and its extent.
Now, third assignment in the Judiciary Committee is to the Judiciary Committee, a juvenile delinquency
subcommittee, which I have in the past service chairman.
I consider the work of this committee among the most important congresses coming to grips
with.
Much evidence has been developed to show that the responsibility or the blame for juvenile
delinquency rests not upon a single cause but upon many.
We do know that it is the delinquence family, the delinquence community, and the delinquence
society which breeds the delinquent child.
I feel so strongly about this that I devoted an entire speech to the subject before I create
a group of leading Methodist ministers and laymen this week.
That's all that we say how much I have enjoyed visits from many friends in Tennessee this
past week.
The rural towns have found service organization of leaders from rural areas where host to
Congressman Baker and me at breakfast one day last week.
And Kato Ellis of Munford, George Flowers and Tom Bradley of Covington and J.T. Haines
of Brownsville stopped in the semen.
We were able to be of service to some of these people in connection with a cotton virus program.
Senator Gore in Representative Everett and I accompanied them to see assistant secretary
McLean of the Agriculture Department.
And I think that our meeting was satisfactory.
The cotton program is being written and everybody is expressing their views about what it ought
to be for next year.
I look forward to next week's visit with you over television when I will try to bring
you up to date on the many activities in your nation's capital.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the Senate last week burst into activity on
a number of important issues.
Among these was considerable debate on the housing bill of this year, which was reported
by the Banking Committee of the Senate last Wednesday.
The bill sponsored by the Democrats would provide federal grants totaling two and one
tensed billion dollars for urban renewal programs.
Over the next six years, we have a lot of these programs in Tennessee, as all of you
know.
The administration bill by contrast would appropriate one and three tensed billion dollars for
urban renewal over the same period.
The Democratic bill calls for 35,000 new starts in public housing.
The administration proposal makes no provision for new starts this year.
The Democratic measure would raise interest rates on GI loans from four and three fours percent
to five and one fourth percent.
And this is in line with the administration's thinking.
Although I personally doubt whether this increased interest rate is a solution to the problem
of GI's getting adequate loans.
The bill would provide for federal loans to a four hundred million dollars for college
housing, which is just about double the figure that Mr. Eisenhower represented.
The original Democratic proposal for direct loans for veterans was three hundred million
dollars, but this was compromised down to one hundred and fifty million dollars.
For the Cape Heart of Indiana, attempted to amend the bill in many respects.
We had two long night sessions about it, but most of his amendments have been voted down,
and it looks like the bill as originally presented or about in that form will pass, as to what
the president will do with the bill, whether he will veto it or not, is another matter.
We'll have to wait and see.
Another bill which is headed for debate and for final action is federal aid for airports.
We passed a bill in the Congress last year along this line, which as many of you know
was vetoed by the president.
I feel that some bill ought to be passed, giving more aid for airport construction.
The airport congestion problem, the rapid increase in demand for new facilities brought about
by jet planes is already a very serious problem.
It has already reached the point of real difficulty and danger as we know it.
Many planes have been falling recently, some on a kind of inadequate airport facilities.
And I don't think we can afford to squeeze dollars in case where lives are directly concerned
as they are here.
By this last week, it was a pleasure to welcome quite a number of visitors to Tennessee,
a delegation of the Tennessee Veterans of Foreign Wars came to Washington to attend their
annual congressional meeting where they presented the needs of veterans to the various congressional
committees.
And I had the privilege of having a number of this group as my guest in the Senate Restroom.
The group included Herbert Davis, the state commander of Mowlin, Dave Doughton of Memphis,
Charlie Casey and Floyd Matthews of Nashville, RL England, the former commander of Gallatin,
and Balsam Perry of Elizabeth.
On another occasion last week, Mayor Steger Well of Mowlin and Dr. Clember, the head of
the Chamber of Commerce, came to see Senator Gore and me.
And we took them over to see Dr. Holiday, the Missile Tsar in connection with trying to
get the Mowlin ordinance used in connection with the making of missiles or some parts there
are.
There is a company that's operating down at Huntsville in the solid propellant part of the
missile program.
And if they do get new business, they feel that they could use a great deal of the Mowlin
arsenal and give a great many people employment.
We didn't get any promises, but they agreed to give us consideration when the program has
been decided upon and we'll keep in touch with the matter and do the best we can to get
some much needed activity at the Mowlin arsenal.
Another bill which I have a special interest in because I filed it as a sports bill which
would equalize the baseball, basketball, football teams and would give the players a better
right to protect themselves and would be of great interest to the Mowlin elite.
I'll have an opportunity of telling you more about that next week or some other occasion.
Now time's up and I must say goodbye for now.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
In our day-to-day concentration on the very real domestic problems of our nation, there
is often the danger that we may lose sight of another very real problem that is worldwide
in its school.
I speak to you now on the touch and go battle which we wage every hour for the minds
and muscle of men and women throughout the uncommitted nations of the world.
I would, in no way, suggest that I domestic efforts to secure better schools, homes, a
fair and workable program for the farmers and a positive answer to the complex and vexing
problem of a higher and higher cost of living should be relaxed for a moment or any of these
other vital programs that we talk about every day.
These are issues to which I have devoted a considerable amount of study on effort.
They are the framework upon which our way of life and our very freedoms are built.
But this framework of our freedoms also depends to a very large degree upon whether or not
we win the relentless coal war for the peoples of the world.
Not only in Sephari's freedom lives, not only in Sephari's our own nation, but in these
many nations where our freedoms stay strong.
It is with these thoughts before me that I call you attention to a resolution that I
have just introduced in the United States Senate.
Fifteen of my colleagues in the Senate have co-sponsored this resolution.
They are Senator Byrd of West Virginia, Senator Young of O'Hah, Senator Douglas, Maulis,
McGee, Javits, Murray, Mansfield, Bartlett, Humphries, Engel, McCarthy of Minnesota, Clark, New
Berger, and Randolph.
Most countries of the free world are now giving economic help of one kind or another to the
underdeveloped countries of our world.
It is my belief that such help could be much more effective if all of these free nations,
such as France, England, Italy, West Germany, the United States, and many others, would
immediately coordinate their national programs of economic assistance.
My resolution calls upon the President and the Secretary of State to seek to work out
agreements with other free nations, looking toward consolidation of these various national
programs of economic assistance.
Such a consolidated program would achieve, I believe, three very important things.
First, it would avoid costly duplication of effort, and thus work a less of a tax burden
on the people of any one nation.
In Second, it would join the uncommitted nations to the free world, rather than to just one
member of this world.
One nation might have better acceptance here and another nation there.
And third, it would encourage greater effort on the part of free nations to work as a harmonious
economic force.
You may ask, what has all this to do with fighting the Russians and the Cold War?
Here I believe is the answer to that question.
The Soviet Union is courting the underdeveloped and uncommitted nations with economic aid,
a one kind or another, in a big way, just as we in the free nations community are doing.
But the Soviet rate of production is gaining on us at a fast cliff.
And as they are able to offer more and more aid, they have the dangers advantage of one
single channel, the totalitarian Russian funnel, through which they can pour their offerings,
in devastating concentration.
Concerted action in this field is vital to the free nations.
If this economic battle is lost, the Cold War could be lost.
This year's bidding too for the hearts and minds of many people in the world.
We cannot afford to underbid and lose these people.
I hope the executive department of our government will heed this resolution amid the daily domestic
and political struggle.
I believe it is a very important resolution.
I believe it is an important battle.
I believe our very freedoms here in abroad depend to a large degree upon the common effort
among the free nations to beat Russia to the economic punch.
That is why I have devoted this weekly report to this question.
I have enjoyed talking with you again, and I will look forward to visiting with you again
on television next week.
That's all for now, and goodbye until next week.